### Using Websockets with ACIToolkit
ACIToolkit has websocket functionality built into the SDK simplifying the use of websockets with ACI. We will leverage this functionaility to quickly and easily establish a session with the APIC and view events as they happen by the APIC notifying our client side script.

This is in contrast to polling mechanisms that exist such as writing a script to check for a change every N seconds or minutes. Using the websocket functionality, we'll continuously receive updates directly from APIC as they happen.  The nice thing is, you can selectively subscribe to the events that are important to you.

#### Opening a Websocket Session
The Toolkit abstracts some of the steps in establishing a websocket connection, making it easier to get started. In order to open a websocket in Toolkit, you just need to establish a Session and create a Subscription; the opening of a websocket, and entering subscription URLs are handled by the acitoolkit library automatically.

#### Credentials File
We use a `credentials.py` file in this lab to authenticate with the APIC. If you are following along with your own device, then we suggest creating this file and saving it in your working directory. The file should look like this with updated parameters for your environment:
```
URL = 'https://apic'
LOGIN = 'admin'
PASSWORD = 'password'
```

We have also provided this file in the sample code repo.

Open a Python interpreter window and follow along.

#### Connect to the APIC
The first step is to import the credentials and acitoolkit library. If you are not using a credentials file, then you need to define the URL, LOGIN, and PASSWORD variables.
```python
>>> from credentials import *
>>> from acitoolkit.acitoolkit import *
>>> 
>>> session = Session(URL, LOGIN, PASSWORD)
>>> session.login()
<Response [200]>
>>> 
```

#### Class Subscriptions
Subscribing to a Class URL is done by calling the Class.subcribe() function on the session object: `Class.subscribe(session)`.

Subscribe to the Tenant class:
```python
>>> Tenant.subscribe(session)
True
>>>  
```

#### Viewing Websocket Events
The Toolkit uses the `Class.has_events(session)` function to check if there are any events in the queue, and the `Class.get_event(session)` to retrieve the first event in the queue.

Check for events and view the first event:
```python
>>> Tenant.has_events(session)
True
>>> event = Tenant.get_event(session)
>>> print(event)
common
>>> print(event.dn)
uni/tn-common
>>> event.is_deleted()
False
```
