# ACI Programmability to Go - ACI Toolkit

Since you already have a high level understanding of the ACI Toolkit, we are now going to do a deeper dive into what it offers by reviewing it's core features and functionality. ACI Toolkit comes with 3 primary tools to interact with ACI:

* A lightweight Python library
* Set of sample scripts
* Several pre-built applications using the toolkit library

First, we are going to provide an introduction to each one of them and review installation procedures, followed by the Toolkit data model, and finally, we'll provide hands-on examples using the Toolkit.


### Toolkit Library
As mentioned in the previous section, the Toolkit is not a full featured library like Cobra. Instead, it seeks to provide easy access to programming the most common tasks when managing a ACI fabric. The toolkit provides a more friendly API (library) by creating more familiar object names to someone who has spent just a little bit of time in the APIC GUI. For instance, the API references a tenant by "model.fv.Tenant", whereas the ACI Toolkit simply uses "Tenant." Also, since the Toolkit is focused on only the most common tasks, the Python library is much smaller and easier to begin using than the fully functional Cobra package.

### Sample Scripts
The Toolkit also comes with over 40 sample scripts that are ready to be used. These scripts accomplish varying GET, POST, and DELETE tasks, and have varying levels of details required to run. Other network Engineers have also come up with their own scripts and posted them to GitHub.

### Toolkit Applications
There are several applications that are installed with the Toolkit package. These are more robust then the sample scripts, and often have visual representations instead of just displaying info back to a terminal window. Since these do have more features, sometimes they require additional applications to be installed, such as Flask or MySQL. Some applications are used for historical purposes and should be installed on a server and left running; an example would be endpoint tracker, which keeps record of where and when hosts join and leave the fabric.

### Installation and Documentation

The Toolkit can be downloaded from GitHub two different ways, or could also be pulled from docker:

*  Downloaded the zip file from https://github.com/datacenter/acitoolkit/archive/master.zip and unzipping the contents
*  Using Git: `git clone https://github.com/datacenter/acitoolkit.git`
*  Using Docker: `docker pull dockercisco/acitoolkit`

Once the package is downloaded, installation is as simple as running the setup.py file in the acitoolkit directory:

> Note: `sudo` if required.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/datacint/acitoolkit
$ cd acitoolkit
$ ls
acitoolkit           contributors.txt  LICENSE    samples        tests
acitoolkit.egg-info  dist              NOTICE     scripts        Vagrantfile
applications         Dockerfile        pylintrc   setup.py
build                docs              README.md  shippable.yml
$ python setup.py install
several log messages should appear
$ 
```

Documentation for ACI Toolkit can be found on GitHub at https://github.com/datacenter/acitoolkit or at the main documentation site, https://acitoolkit.readthedocs.io. The Read the Docs website has full details of the API, Applications, and a thorough walkthrough on using ACI Toolkit for Monitoring and Statistical information. 


