# Mission: Use Websockets to Send Notifications to Slack
As Superheroes and Villains continues to grow, there is increasing demand to quickly isolate and resolve incidents. Since they have deployed ACI in their new datacenter, your boss has decided to leverage its programming capabliities to meet these requirements.

You have been asked to have the events in the ACI fabric push notifications to a new Spark room, "SnV NOC." This is the perfect opportunity to impress the boss with what you have learned about using websockets with ACI.

#### Mission Task
Inside the sample code repo is a `spark` directory that contains a partially complete script that will post messages to a Spark room. Copy this directory to your environment and open the `push_notifications_to_spark.py` file in a text editor.

To complete this mission, you need to replace the **##** comments in the `subscribe_to_events()` function with the actual ACI Toolkit code used to subscribe and retrieve events from the APIC.
>This program is similar to the one used in the "Websockets" lab.

##### Subscribe to Events
The first three comments should be replaced with the code used to open a websocket connection and subscribe to the Tenant, Application Profile, and EPG classes

1.  _## SUBSCRIBE TO TENANT CLASS_
2.  _## SUBSCRIBE TO APPLICATION PROFILE CLASS_
3.  _## SUBSCRIBE TO EPG CLASS_

##### Check for Events
Inside the infinite loop is a three tier `if/elif` structure that should test if any of the Class Subscriptions have an event: the comment portion needs to be replaced with the ACI Toolkit code that checks if the specific class has an event.

1.  if _## CHECK IF TENANT SUBSCRIPTION HAS ANY EVENTS_
2.  elif _## CHECK IF APPLICATION PROFILE SUBSCRIPTION HAS ANY EVENTS_
3.  elif _## CHECK IF EPG SUBSCRIPTION HAS ANY EVENTS_

##### Retrieve Events
After each Class Subscription test is a variable assignment that should assign `event` to the Event that is in the Subscription Queue.

1.  event = _## GET TENANT EVENT_
2.  event = _## GET APPLICATION PROFILE EVENT_
3.  event = _## GET EPG EVENT_

The Solution is provided on the following page.