# Understanding ACI in 15 Minutes

## NXOS Mode vs. ACI
The Nexus 9000 has two modes of operation to fit different operational models: NXOS mode and Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) mode.  In the NXOS mode of operations, the Nexus 9000 platform utilizes a traditional operating system with enhancements to provide a platform for existing network deployments, while maintaining the capability to leverage next-generation data center protocols and technologies. In NXOS mode, there is the ability for standalone, or device by device level programmability using APIs such Cisco's Nexus NX-API.

With Cisco Nexus 9000 in ACI mode, the infrastructure is centrally managed by a cluster of controllers– the Application Policy Infrastructure Controllers (APICs). ACI is Cisco’s core SDN solution for the data center.  

While NXOS and ACI modes have independent road maps and feature sets, the common hardware platform provides flexibility, choice and value.  The common hardware being referred to is the Nexus platform, specifically the Nexus 9000 series.

## ACI Hardware

On most Nexus 9000 hardware, customers can perform a software upgrade to migrate hardware to ACI, an SDN-focused model of operations. 

In ACI mode, switches opperate as either a Spine or a Leaf. Spine switches are used to aggregate leaf switches, and have an ACI Spine Engine (ASE); currently the 93936PQ and 9500 series support spine functionality. Leaf switches are used as access devices, and have ACI Leaf Engines (ALE); most of the 9300 series switches are designed for this purpose.

The Cisco Nexus 9000 ACI switching platform provides four key benefits to next-generation data centers:

*  Support of centralized management and policy administration for data center operations 
*  Provides a 1/10/40/100G platform for scalable and evolvable switching for the data center in the data plane.
*  9500-EX line cards and 9300-EX switches support Cisco’s advanced telemetry options with Tetration Analytics.
*  Provides a range of additional programmability features to bring the benefits of flexibility and agility not previously available for those customers requiring new levels of network programmability.
