# Add "Bite" to your ACI Python Scripts with Cobra

### Introduction to Cobra
"ACI Programmability Options" introduced the Cobra SDK and provided installation instructions. In summary, Cobra is a fully functional Python library used for programming the ACI fabric. We demonstrated how to auto-generate Python scripts in "Creating ACI Scripts the Easy Way."

So far, whether using ACIToolkit, WebArya, or making API calls with Postman, all of exercises have had you build new configurations by manually editing lines of code and sending them to the APIC. If you wanted to make a similar change in the future, then you would have to remember what lines needed updating, and repeat the same steps. This method is tedious, prone to mistakes, and provides only minimal checks before making changes.

In this lab, we will expand ACI's programmability features by making a reusable script with Python/Cobra. This script will provide a help menu to list out the acceptable arguments, and will provide a basic check before commiting configuration changes. Let's first take a brief look at Cobra's **mit** and **model** packages.

### Differentiating "acicobra" and "acimodel"
Installation of Cobra requires installing two egg files:

*  acicobra
*  acimodel

#### ACI Cobra
The "acicobra" package is the SDK and is used for interacting with the controller. Here are a few modules and more commonly used classes inside of **cobra.mit**:

*  **Session** is used to create sessions with the APIC using either the `LoginSession` or `CertSession` classes
*  **Access** is used to login/logout of the APIC, and to submit query and configuration requests using the `MoDirectory` class
*  **Request** is used for building queries using the `DnQuery` and `ClassQuery` classes, and for building configuration requests using the `ConfigRequest` class.

#### ACI Model
The "acimodel" package contains modules that model the MIT. Modules in this package are under **cobra.model**, and are too numerous to go through. Cobra is a 1-to-1 mapping of the object-model; therefore, every class in the object-model is represented by a class in the acimodel package. Since it is not always immediately obvious what module is required to represent a class object, we will provide examples of how to determine this based off a JSON configuration and using Arya. 

In "Peeling Back the ACI API" we looked at a simplified JSON configuration similar to this:
```json
{
    "fvTenant": {
        "attributes": {
            "name": "Heroes",
        },
        "children": [
            {
                "fvCtx": {}
            },
            {
                "l3extOut": {}
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

We said that fvTenant and each of its child objects were their own classes. The module and class are derived from these names by the following:

*  the module used will be the characters up to the first Capitilized letter
*  the class used is the rest of the name
  
For this example, **cobra.model.fv** needs to be imported for classes `Tenant` and `Ctx`, and **cobra.model.l3ext** is needed for class `Out`.

An easier option is to use Arya, since it uses the full namespace when creating objects.
```python
import cobra.model.fv
import cobra.model.l3ext

fvTenant = cobra.model.fv.Tenant(...)
fvCtx = cobra.model.fv.Ctx(...)
l3extOut = cobra.model.l3ext.Out(...)
```

Notice that each object is created by using one of the module's imported followed by `.Classname`.

It is important to keep in mind that the "acimodel" package only models the MIT, and that objects created using its classes do not represent what actually exists on the APIC. Only the "acicobra" package interacts with the controller and can create objects that represent existing objects in the APICs MIT.
